# Data collection

This page should list all metrics and logs that Merino is expected to emit in
production, including what should be done about them, if anything.

## Logs

This list does not include any `DEBUG` level events, since those are not logged
by default in production. The level and type of the log is listed.

Any log containing sensitive data must include a boolean field `sensitive`
that is set to `true` to exempt it from flowing to the generally accessible
log inspection interfaces.

### Merino APIs

- `INFO web.suggest.request` - A suggestion request is being processed. This
  event will include fields for all relevant details of the request. **Fields:**

  - `sensitive` - Always set to true to ensure proper routing.
  - `query` - If query logging is enabled, the text the user typed. Otherwise an
    empty string.
  - `country` - The country the request came from.
  - `region` - The first country subdivision the request came from.
  - `city` - The city the request came from.
  - `dma` - A US-only location description that is larger than city and smaller
    than states, but does not align to political borders.
  - `agent` - The original user agent.
  - `os_family` - Parsed from the user agent. One of "windows", "macos",
    "linux", "ios", "android", "chrome os", "blackberry", or "other".
  - `form_factor` - Parsed from the user agent. One of "desktop", "phone",
    "tablet", or "other"
  - `browser` - The browser and possibly version detected. Either "Firefox(XX)"
    where XX is the version, or "Other".
  - `rid` - The request ID.
  - WIP `accepts_english` - True if the user's Accept-Language header includes an
    English locale, false otherwise.
  - `requested_providers` - A comma separated list of providers requested via
    the query string, or an empty string if none were requested (in which case
    the default values would be used).
  - `client_variants` - Any client variants sent to Merino in the query string.
  - `session_id` - A UUID generated by the client for each search session.
  - `sequence_no` -  A client-side event counter (0-based) that records the query
    sequence within each search session.

- `INFO request.summary` - The application request summary that follows the [MozLog][]
  convention. This log is recorded for all incoming HTTP requests except for the
  suggest API endpoint.

[Mozlog]: https://wiki.mozilla.org/Firefox/Services/Logging

- `ERROR dockerflow.error_endpoint` - The `__error__` endpoint of the server was
  called. This is used to test our error reporting system. It is not a cause for
  concern, unless we receive a large amount of these records, in which case some
  outside service is likely malicious or misconfigured.

### Merino Middleware Logs

#### Geolocation

- `WARNING merino.middleware.geolocation` - There was an error with a geolocation lookup.

### Merino Cron Tasks

- `WARNING merino.cron` - There was an error while executing a cron task.

### Merino Feature Flags

- `ERROR merino.featureflags` - There was an error while attempting to assign a
  feature flag for a suggest API request.

### Curated Recommendations

- `ERROR merino.curated_recommendations.corpus_backends.corpus_api_backend` -
 Failed to get timezone for scheduled surface.
- `WARNING merino.curated_recommendations.corpus_backends.corpus_api_backend` -
 Retrying CorpusApiBackend after an http client exception was raised.
- `ERROR GcsEngagement failed to update cache: {e}` - unexpected exception when updating engagement.
- `ERROR Curated recommendations engagement size {blob.size} > {self.max_size}` -
 Max engagement blob size is exceeded. The backend will gracefully fall back to cached data or 0's.
- `INFO Curated recommendations engagement unchanged since {self.last_updated}.` -
 The engagement blob was not updated since the last check. `last_updated` is expected to be
 between 0 and 30 minutes.

## Metrics

> A note on timers: Statsd timers are measured in milliseconds, and are reported
> as integers (at least in Cadence). Milliseconds are often not precise enough
> for the tasks we want to measure in Merino. Instead, we use generic histograms
> to record microsecond times. Metrics recorded in this way should have `-us`
> appended to their name, to mark the units used (since we shouldn't put the
> proper unit μs in metric names).

- `merino.providers.initialize` - A timer to measure the overall initialization
  duration (in ms) for _all_ providers.

- `merino.providers.initialize.<provider>` - A timer to measure the initialization
  duration (in ms) for the given `<provider>`.

  **Example**:
  `merino.providers.initialize.adm`

- `merino.<http_method>.<url_path>.status_codes.<status_code>` - A counter to measure
  the status codes of an HTTP method for the `<url_path>`.

  **Example**:
  `merino.get.api.v1.suggest.status_codes.200`

- `merino.<http_method>.<url_path>.timing` - A timer to measure the duration (in ms)
  of an HTTP method for a URL path.

  **Example**:
  `merino.get.api.v1.suggest.timing`

- `merino.<provider_module>.query` - A timer to measure the query duration (in ms) of
  a certain suggestion provider.

  **Example**:
  `merino.providers.adm.query`

- `merino.<provider_module>.query.timeout` - A counter to measure the query timeouts of
  a certain suggestion provider.

  **Example**:
  `merino.providers.wikipedia.query.timeout`

- `merino.suggestions-per.request` - A histogram metric to get the distribution of
  suggestions per request.

- `merino.suggestions-per.provider.<provider_module>` - A histogram metric to get the distribution of
  suggestions returned per provider (per request).

  **Example**:
  `merino.suggestions-per.provider.wikipedia`

### AccuWeather

The weather provider records additional metrics.

- `accuweather.upstream.request.<request_type>.get` - A counter to measure the number of times an upstream request to Accuweather was made.
- `accuweather.request.location.not_provided` - A counter to measure the number of times a query was send without a location being provided, and therefore unable to process a weather request. Sampled at 75%.
- `accuweather.request.location.dist_calculated.success` - A counter to measure the number of successful lat long distance calculations used to find location.
- `accuweather.request.location.dist_calculated.fail` - A counter to measure the number of failed lat long distance calculations used to find location.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.fetch` - A timer to measure the duration (in ms) of
  looking up a weather report in the cache. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.fetch.miss.locations` - A counter to measure the number of times weather location was not in the cache. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.fetch.miss.currentconditions` - A counter to measure the number of times a current conditions was not in the cache. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.fetch.miss.forecasts` - A counter to measure the number of times a forecast for a location was not in the cache. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.fetch.hit.{locations | currentconditions | forecasts}` - A counter to measure the number of times a
  requested value like a location or forecast is in the cache. We don't count TTL hits explicitly, just misses. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.backend.get` - A timer to measure the duration (in ms) of a
  request for a weather report from the backend. This metric isn't recorded for cache hits. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.store` - A timer to measure the duration (in ms) of
  saving a weather report from the backend to the cache. This metric isn't recorded for cache hits. Sampled at 75%.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.query.cache.error` - A counter to measure the number of times the
  cache store returned an error when fetching or storing a weather report. This should be 0 in
  normal operation. In case of an error, the logs will include a `WARNING` with the full error
  message.
- `merino.providers.accuweather.skip_cities_mapping.total.size` - A counter to measure the total number of occurrences cities were skipped due to no location
- `merino.providers.accuweather.skip_cities_mapping.unique.size` - A counter to measure the number of unique cities that are skipped due to no location

### Curated Recommendations

The following additional metrics are recorded when curated recommendations are requested.

- `corpus_api.request.timing` -
 A timer to measure the duration (in ms) of looking up a list of scheduled corpus items.
- `corpus_api.request.status_codes.{res.status_code}` -
 A counter to measure the status codes of an HTTP request to the curated-corpus-api.
- `corpus_api.request.graphql_error` -
 A counter to measure the number of GraphQL errors from the curated-corpus-api.
- `recommendation.engagement.update.timing` -
 A timer to measure the duration (in ms) of updating the engagement data from GCS.
- `recommendation.engagement.size` - A gauge to track the size of the engagement blob on GCS.
- `recommendation.engagement.count` - A gauge to measure the total number of engagement records.
- `recommendation.engagement.{country}.count` - A gauge to measure the number of scheduled corpus
 items with engagement data per country.
- `recommendation.engagement.{country}.clicks` - A gauge to measure the number of clicks per country
 in our GCS engagement blob.
- `recommendation.engagement.{country}.impressions` - A gauge to measure the number of impressions
 per country in our GCS engagement blob.
- `recommendation.engagement.last_updated` -
 A gauge for the staleness (in seconds) of the engagement data, measured between when the data was
 updated in GCS and the current time.
- `recommendation.prior.update.timing` -
 A timer to measure the duration (in ms) of updating the prior data from GCS.
- `recommendation.prior.size` - A gauge to track the size of the Thompson sampling priors blob on GCS.
- `recommendation.prior.last_updated` -
 A gauge for the staleness (in seconds) of the prior data, measured between when the data was
 updated in GCS and the current time.

### Manifest

When requesting a manifest file, we record the following metrics.

- `manifest.request.get` - A counter for how many requests against the `/manifest` endpoint where made.
- `manifest.request.timing` - A timer for how long it took the endpoint to fulfill the request.
- `manifest.gcs.fetch_time` - A timer for how long it took to download the latest manifest file from the Google Cloud bucket.
- `manifest.request.no_manifest` - A counter to measure how many times we didn't find the latest manifest file.
- `manifest.request.error` - A counter to measure how many times we could not provide a valid JSON manifest file.
